README.md, before:

# 🚀 TON Connect

Welcome to the implementation of the TonConnect protocol! Before diving in, here's where to start:


- Easily connect users to your Dapp and start blockchain interactions:
  - [TON Connect UI React](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui-react): Seamlessly integrate wallet connection components into your React app.
  - [TON Connect UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui): Quickly add wallet connection components to your Dapp.


- For detailed information about the TonConnect protocol, visit the [official documentation](https://docs.ton.org/develop/dapps/ton-connect/overview).

- [📚 Latest API documentation](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/)

## 📦 Packages

The repository contains the following packages:

- [**@tonconnect/sdk**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/sdk)
- [**@tonconnect/protocol**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/protocol)
- [**@tonconnect/ui**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui)
- [**@tonconnect/ui-react**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui-react)

---

## 📘 TON Connect SDK
- **GitHub**: [link](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk/tree/main/packages/sdk)
- **npm**: [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/sdk)
- **API Documentation**: [link](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/modules/_tonconnect_sdk.html)

Use this package to connect your app to TON wallets via the TonConnect protocol.
A full description can be found in the link above.

---

## 📗 TON Connect Protocol Models
- **GitHub**: [link](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk/tree/main/packages/protocol)
- **npm**: [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/protocol)
- **API Documentation**: [link](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/modules/_tonconnect_protocol.html)

This package contains protocol requests, responses, and event models, along with encoding and decoding functions. Use it to integrate TonConnect into your wallet app (written with TypeScript). For integrating TonConnect into your dApp, use [@tonconnect/sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/sdk).

---

## 📙 TON Connect UI
- **GitHub**: [link](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk/tree/main/packages/ui)
- **npm**: [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui)
- **API Documentation**: [link](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/modules/_tonconnect_ui.html)

TonConnect UI is a UI kit for TonConnect SDK. Use it to connect your app to TON wallets via the TonConnect protocol. It simplifies integration using UI elements like the "connect wallet button," "select wallet dialog," and confirmation modals.

---

## 📕 TON Connect UI React
- **GitHub**: [link](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk/tree/main/packages/ui-react)
- **npm**: [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui-react)
- **API Documentation**: [link](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/modules/_tonconnect_ui_react.html)

TonConnect UI React is a React UI kit for TonConnect SDK. Use it to connect your app to TON wallets via the TonConnect protocol in React apps.

---

## 🛠️ Development

Follow the instructions in [DEVELOPERS.md](./DEVELOPERS.md) to set up the development environment.

Commit message:

docs: update README files to clarify Tonkeeper-specific enhancements

README.md, after:

# 🚀 TON Connect by Tonkeeper

> This is a Tonkeeper-maintained fork of the official [TonConnect](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk) with additional features and improvements. While maintaining compatibility with the core TonConnect protocol.

Welcome to the implementation of the TonConnect protocol! Before diving in, here's where to start:


- Easily connect users to your Dapp and start blockchain interactions:
  - [TON Connect UI React](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui-react): Seamlessly integrate wallet connection components into your React app.
  - [TON Connect UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui): Quickly add wallet connection components to your Dapp.


- For detailed information about the TonConnect protocol, visit the [official documentation](https://docs.ton.org/develop/dapps/ton-connect/overview).

- [📚 Latest API documentation](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/)

## 📦 Packages

The repository contains the following packages:

- [**@tonconnect/sdk**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/sdk)
- [**@tonconnect/protocol**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/protocol)
- [**@tonconnect/ui**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui)
- [**@tonconnect/ui-react**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui-react)

---

## 📘 TON Connect SDK
- **GitHub**: [link](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk/tree/main/packages/sdk)
- **npm**: [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/sdk)
- **API Documentation**: [link](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/modules/_tonconnect_sdk.html)

Use this package to connect your app to TON wallets via the TonConnect protocol.
A full description can be found in the link above.

---

## 📗 TON Connect Protocol Models
- **GitHub**: [link](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk/tree/main/packages/protocol)
- **npm**: [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/protocol)
- **API Documentation**: [link](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/modules/_tonconnect_protocol.html)

This package contains protocol requests, responses, and event models, along with encoding and decoding functions. Use it to integrate TonConnect into your wallet app (written with TypeScript). For integrating TonConnect into your dApp, use [@tonconnect/sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/sdk).

---

## 📙 TON Connect UI
- **GitHub**: [link](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk/tree/main/packages/ui)
- **npm**: [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui)
- **API Documentation**: [link](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/modules/_tonconnect_ui.html)

TonConnect UI is a UI kit for TonConnect SDK. Use it to connect your app to TON wallets via the TonConnect protocol. It simplifies integration using UI elements like the "connect wallet button," "select wallet dialog," and confirmation modals.

---

## 📕 TON Connect UI React
- **GitHub**: [link](https://github.com/ton-connect/sdk/tree/main/packages/ui-react)
- **npm**: [link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tonconnect/ui-react)
- **API Documentation**: [link](https://ton-connect.github.io/sdk/modules/_tonconnect_ui_react.html)

TonConnect UI React is a React UI kit for TonConnect SDK. Use it to connect your app to TON wallets via the TonConnect protocol in React apps.

---

## 🛠️ Development

Follow the instructions in [DEVELOPERS.md](./DEVELOPERS.md) to set up the development environment.
